README.md, before:

# Secure Chest

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/simlu/secure-chest/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/simlu/secure-chest)
[![Test Coverage](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/simlu/secure-chest/master.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/simlu/secure-chest?branch=master)
[![Greenkeeper Badge](https://badges.greenkeeper.io/simlu/secure-chest.svg)](https://greenkeeper.io/)
[![Dependencies](https://david-dm.org/simlu/secure-chest/status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/simlu/secure-chest)
[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/secure-chest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/secure-chest)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/secure-chest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/secure-chest)
[![Semantic-Release](https://github.com/simlu/js-gardener/blob/master/assets/icons/semver.svg)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)
[![Gardener](https://github.com/simlu/js-gardener/blob/master/assets/badge.svg)](https://github.com/simlu/js-gardener)
[![Gitter](https://github.com/simlu/js-gardener/blob/master/assets/icons/gitter.svg)](https://gitter.im/simlu/secure-chest)

Web-safe Encryption and Signing of Data

## Use Case

Intended for storing data with untrusted party. Useful when storing data on server is expensive, forbidden, inconvenient or impossible. 

Data is first signed and then, together with a timestamp, encrypted into a "chest" using a secret. Data can be extracted again and checked for consistency and freshness using the same secret.

Encoded Data is Url Safe and satisfies the regular expression `^[A-Za-z0-9\-_]+$`. Internally Gzip is used when this shortens the tokens.

## Getting Started

    $ npm i --save secure-chest


Below is an example flow that allows users to be signed in without persisting any information on the server.

<!-- eslint-disable import/no-unresolved, import/no-extraneous-dependencies, no-undef -->
```js
const { Chester, DecryptionExpiredError } = require("secure-chest");

const chester = Chester("SECRET-ENCRYPTION-KEY", {
  name: "facebook-auth",
  maxAgeInSec: 60 * 60 // require re-auth every hour
});

// ... facebook oauth flow ...

const token = getFacebookSessionToken();
const chest = chester.lockObj({ token });

// ... store chest with client ...

// ... time passes ...

// .. client makes request and provides chest ...

try {
  if (isValidFacebookUser(chester.unlockObj(chest))) {
    // welcome back
  }
} catch (e) {
  if (e instanceof DecryptionExpiredError) {
    // ... re-authenticate with facebook ...
  }
}
```

Or to create an unsubscribe link without storing information on the server one could use it as follows.

<!-- eslint-disable import/no-unresolved, import/no-extraneous-dependencies, no-undef, no-unused-vars -->
```js
const { Chester, DecryptionExpiredError } = require("secure-chest");

const chester = Chester("SECRET-ENCRYPTION-KEY", {
  name: "email-unsubscribe",
  maxAgeInSec: 60 * 60 * 24 * 90 // link is valid for 90 days
});

// could also include hashed password-salt if unsubscribe links should be invalidated when password changes
const unsubscribeLink = `https://domain.com/unsubscribe?token=${chester.lockObj({ userId, userEmail })}`;

// ... generate and send email to user ...

// ... user clicks unsubscribe link ...

const token = getQueryParam("token");

try {
  const info = chester.unlockObj(token);
  const user = findUser(info.userId, info.userEmail);
  if (user) {
    unsubscribe(user);
  } else {
    // user does not exist or email address was changed
  }
} catch (e) {
  if (e instanceof DecryptionExpiredError) {
    // unsubscribe link has expired
  }
}
```

## Chester

Exposes main functionality.

### Parameters

#### secret

Type: `string` or `Buffer`<br>

Secret used to encrypt data. If `string` is provided it is converted into `Buffer` internally using provided encoding.

#### name

Type: `string`<br>
Default: `default`

Name of this Chester. A Chester can not open chests if Chester with different name but same secret
locked them. Ease-of-life, so one can use same secret for different Chester.

Internally name is merged with provided secret and passed into underlying Crypter.

#### encoding

Type: `constants.ENCODING`<br>
Default: `constants.ENCODING.utf8`

Encoding used to convert between strings and Buffers. For most cases `utf8` is suitable.

#### zeroTime

Type: `number`<br>
Default: `1514764800`

Used to delay year [2038 problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem). Should never be changed.

Necessary since timestamp is stored as 4 bytes.

#### maxAgeInSec

Type: `number`<br>
Default: `60`

Maximum age in seconds before chest expires and `DecryptionExpiredError` is thrown when trying to unlock it. 

When value is changed it is automatically changed for all previously created chests, since chests only store a timestamp.

#### gzip

See Crypter below

#### encryption

See Cryper below

#### ivLength

See Cryper below

### Errors

#### EncryptionError

General Encryption Error that all Encryption Errors inherit from.

#### EncryptionJsonError

Thrown from `lockObj` when `JSON.stringify` fails. 

#### DecryptionError

General Decryption Error that all Decryption Errors inherit from.

#### DecryptionIntegrityError

Provided data can not be decrypted. Can be indication for invalid data or incorrect secret or name.

#### DecryptionSignatureError

Data was decrypted successfully, but signature did not match. Can also indicate invalid data or an incorrect secret or name.

Also thrown when context was changed.

#### DecryptionTimeTravelError

The chest is not valid yet. This usually only happens when the zeroTime is changed.

#### DecryptionExpiredError

The chest has expired.

#### DecryptionJsonError

Thrown from `unlockObj` when `JSON.parse` fails. 

### Functions

#### lock

`lock(treasure, ...contexts)`

Create and "lock" new chest. Takes data to encrypt as first argument and contexts as additional arguments.

When unlocking chest where contexts have been provided to lock it, unlocking requires the contexts to be identical.

#### lockObj

Wraps `lock`, and `JSON.stringify` is applied to first argument. On failure `EncryptionJsonError` is thrown.

#### unlock

`unlock(chest, ...contexts)`

Unlock a chest and returns data. Takes data to decrypt as first argument and contexts as additional arguments.

This method can throw various errors (see section).

#### unlockObj

Wraps `unlock`, and `JSON.parse` is applied to return value. On failure `DecryptionJsonError` is thrown.

### Example

<!-- eslint-disable import/no-unresolved, import/no-extraneous-dependencies -->
```js
const Chester = require("secure-chest").Chester;

const chester = Chester("SECRET-ENCRYPTION-KEY");
const data = "Some Text";
const chest = chester.lock(data);
chester.unlock(chest);
// => "Some Text"
```

## Crypter

Used to encrypt and decrypt data using `aes-256-cbc` with `16` bit random IV by default (see notes below).

Deals only with Buffers and produced web-safe base64 and hence is encoding independent.

Internally this uses GZip when this shortens the output.

*Important*: Errors are not explicitly handled.

### Functions

#### encrypt

`encrypt(Buffer)`

Takes a Buffer and encrypts it as a web-safe base64 encoded string.

#### decrypt

`decrypt(Base64)`

Takes a web-safe base64 encoded string and decrypts it into a Buffer.

### Parameters

#### secret

Type: `Buffer`<br>

Secret used to encrypt data. Internally this gets hashed.

#### gzip

Type: `constant.GZIP_MODE`<br>
Default: `constant.GZIP_MODE.AUTO`

Overwrite gzip mode. By default gzip mode is only used when output is shortened. Useful when gzip is computationally too expensive.

Will not change how first bit is set in IV and hence ok to change for existing tokens.

#### encryption

Type: `string`<br>
Default: `aes-256-cbc`

Defines encryption algorithm. IV length must be compatible.

#### ivLength

Type: `number`<br>
Default: `16`

Defines length of IV. Must be compatible with encryption.

### Example

<!-- eslint-disable import/no-unresolved, import/no-extraneous-dependencies -->
```js
const crypto = require('crypto');
const Crypter = require("secure-chest").Crypter;

const crypter = Crypter(crypto.randomBytes(64));

const data = crypto.randomBytes(64);
const encrypted = crypter.encrypt(data); // non-deterministic due to IV
const decrypted = crypter.decrypt(encrypted);

Buffer.compare(data, decrypted);
// => 0
```

## Constants

### GZIP_MODE

Values `AUTO`, `NEVER`, `FORCE`

Defines gzip mode used internally.

### ENCODING

Values `utf8`, `ascii`, `latin1`, `binary`

Defines encoding for string to buffer conversions.

## Utility Functions

The functions `toUrlSafeBase64` and `fromUrlSafeBase64` are exposed.

`toUrlSafeBase64(Buffer)`
 
`fromUrlSafeBase64(Base64)` 

## Implementation Notes

This project is considered complete and won't see any major features or changes.

Input values are heavily checked and `TypeError` is raised if invalid.

## Security Observations

GZip is only used when this shortens the output. One bit in IV indicates this and hence only `len - 1` bits are truly random. Acceptable when `len(IV) >= 16` bytes.

Commit message:

feat: simplified crypter and moved gzip logic into chester

README.md, after:

# Secure Chest

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/simlu/secure-chest/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/simlu/secure-chest)
[![Test Coverage](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/simlu/secure-chest/master.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/simlu/secure-chest?branch=master)
[![Greenkeeper Badge](https://badges.greenkeeper.io/simlu/secure-chest.svg)](https://greenkeeper.io/)
[![Dependencies](https://david-dm.org/simlu/secure-chest/status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/simlu/secure-chest)
[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/secure-chest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/secure-chest)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/secure-chest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/secure-chest)
[![Semantic-Release](https://github.com/simlu/js-gardener/blob/master/assets/icons/semver.svg)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)
[![Gardener](https://github.com/simlu/js-gardener/blob/master/assets/badge.svg)](https://github.com/simlu/js-gardener)
[![Gitter](https://github.com/simlu/js-gardener/blob/master/assets/icons/gitter.svg)](https://gitter.im/simlu/secure-chest)

Web-safe Encryption and Signing of Data

## Use Case

Intended for storing data with untrusted party. Useful when storing data on server is expensive, forbidden, inconvenient or impossible. 

Data is first signed and then, together with a timestamp, encrypted into a "chest" using a secret. Data can be extracted again and checked for consistency and freshness using the same secret.

Encoded Data is Url Safe and satisfies the regular expression `^[A-Za-z0-9\-_]+$`. Internally Gzip is used when this shortens the tokens.

## Getting Started

    $ npm i --save secure-chest


Below is an example flow that allows users to be signed in without persisting any information on the server.

<!-- eslint-disable import/no-unresolved, import/no-extraneous-dependencies, no-undef -->
```js
const { Chester, DecryptionExpiredError } = require("secure-chest");

const chester = Chester("SECRET-ENCRYPTION-KEY", {
  name: "facebook-auth",
  maxAgeInSec: 60 * 60 // require re-auth every hour
});

// ... facebook oauth flow ...

const token = getFacebookSessionToken();
const chest = chester.lockObj({ token });

// ... store chest with client ...

// ... time passes ...

// .. client makes request and provides chest ...

try {
  if (isValidFacebookUser(chester.unlockObj(chest))) {
    // welcome back
  }
} catch (e) {
  if (e instanceof DecryptionExpiredError) {
    // ... re-authenticate with facebook ...
  }
}
```

Or to create an unsubscribe link without storing information on the server one could use it as follows.

<!-- eslint-disable import/no-unresolved, import/no-extraneous-dependencies, no-undef, no-unused-vars -->
```js
const { Chester, DecryptionExpiredError } = require("secure-chest");

const chester = Chester("SECRET-ENCRYPTION-KEY", {
  name: "email-unsubscribe",
  maxAgeInSec: 60 * 60 * 24 * 90 // link is valid for 90 days
});

// could also include hashed password-salt if unsubscribe links should be invalidated when password changes
const unsubscribeLink = `https://domain.com/unsubscribe?token=${chester.lockObj({ userId, userEmail })}`;

// ... generate and send email to user ...

// ... user clicks unsubscribe link ...

const token = getQueryParam("token");

try {
  const info = chester.unlockObj(token);
  const user = findUser(info.userId, info.userEmail);
  if (user) {
    unsubscribe(user);
  } else {
    // user does not exist or email address was changed
  }
} catch (e) {
  if (e instanceof DecryptionExpiredError) {
    // unsubscribe link has expired
  }
}
```

## Chester

Exposes main functionality.

Uses GZip internally when this shortens the output.

### Parameters

#### secret

Type: `string` or `Buffer`<br>

Secret used to encrypt data. If `string` is provided it is converted into `Buffer` internally using provided encoding.

#### name

Type: `string`<br>
Default: `default`

Name of this Chester. A Chester can not open chests if Chester with different name but same secret
locked them. Ease-of-life, so one can use same secret for different Chester.

Internally name is merged with provided secret and passed into underlying Crypter.

#### encoding

Type: `constants.ENCODING`<br>
Default: `constants.ENCODING.utf8`

Encoding used to convert between strings and Buffers. For most cases `utf8` is suitable.

#### zeroTime

Type: `number`<br>
Default: `1514764800`

Used to delay year [2038 problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem). Should never be changed.

Necessary since timestamp is stored as 4 bytes.

#### maxAgeInSec

Type: `number`<br>
Default: `60`

Maximum age in seconds before chest expires and `DecryptionExpiredError` is thrown when trying to unlock it. 

When value is changed it is automatically changed for all previously created chests, since chests only store a timestamp.

#### gzip

Type: `constant.GZIP_MODE`<br>
Default: `constant.GZIP_MODE.AUTO`

Overwrite gzip mode. By default gzip mode is only used when output is shortened. Useful when gzip is computationally too expensive.

#### encryption

See Cryper below

#### ivLength

See Cryper below

### Errors

#### EncryptionError

General Encryption Error that all Encryption Errors inherit from.

#### EncryptionJsonError

Thrown from `lockObj` when `JSON.stringify` fails. 

#### DecryptionError

General Decryption Error that all Decryption Errors inherit from.

#### DecryptionIntegrityError

Provided data can not be decrypted. Can be indication for invalid data or incorrect secret or name.

#### DecryptionSignatureError

Data was decrypted successfully, but signature did not match. Can also indicate invalid data or an incorrect secret or name.

Also thrown when context was changed.

#### DecryptionTimeTravelError

The chest is not valid yet. This usually only happens when the zeroTime is changed.

#### DecryptionExpiredError

The chest has expired.

#### DecryptionGunzipError

The gzip content of the chest is invalid. This should never happen.

#### DecryptionJsonError

Thrown from `unlockObj` when `JSON.parse` fails. 

### Functions

#### lock

`lock(treasure, ...contexts)`

Create and "lock" new chest. Takes data to encrypt as first argument and contexts as additional arguments.

When unlocking chest where contexts have been provided to lock it, unlocking requires the contexts to be identical.

#### lockObj

Wraps `lock`, and `JSON.stringify` is applied to first argument. On failure `EncryptionJsonError` is thrown.

#### unlock

`unlock(chest, ...contexts)`

Unlock a chest and returns data. Takes data to decrypt as first argument and contexts as additional arguments.

This method can throw various errors (see section).

#### unlockObj

Wraps `unlock`, and `JSON.parse` is applied to return value. On failure `DecryptionJsonError` is thrown.

### Example

<!-- eslint-disable import/no-unresolved, import/no-extraneous-dependencies -->
```js
const Chester = require("secure-chest").Chester;

const chester = Chester("SECRET-ENCRYPTION-KEY");
const data = "Some Text";
const chest = chester.lock(data);
chester.unlock(chest);
// => "Some Text"
```

## Crypter

Used to encrypt and decrypt data using `aes-256-cbc` with `16` bit random IV by default.

Deals only with Buffers and produced web-safe base64 and hence is encoding independent.

*Important*: Errors are not explicitly handled.

### Functions

#### encrypt

`encrypt(Buffer)`

Takes a Buffer and encrypts it as a web-safe base64 encoded string.

#### decrypt

`decrypt(Base64)`

Takes a web-safe base64 encoded string and decrypts it into a Buffer.

### Parameters

#### secret

Type: `Buffer`<br>

Secret used to encrypt data. Internally this gets hashed.

#### encryption

Type: `string`<br>
Default: `aes-256-cbc`

Defines encryption algorithm. IV length must be compatible.

#### ivLength

Type: `number`<br>
Default: `16`

Defines length of IV. Must be compatible with encryption.

### Example

<!-- eslint-disable import/no-unresolved, import/no-extraneous-dependencies -->
```js
const crypto = require('crypto');
const Crypter = require("secure-chest").Crypter;

const crypter = Crypter(crypto.randomBytes(64));

const data = crypto.randomBytes(64);
const encrypted = crypter.encrypt(data); // non-deterministic due to IV
const decrypted = crypter.decrypt(encrypted);

Buffer.compare(data, decrypted);
// => 0
```

## Constants

### GZIP_MODE

Values `AUTO`, `NEVER`, `FORCE`

Defines gzip mode used internally.

### ENCODING

Values `utf8`, `ascii`, `latin1`, `binary`

Defines encoding for string to buffer conversions.

## Utility Functions

The functions `toUrlSafeBase64` and `fromUrlSafeBase64` are exposed.

`toUrlSafeBase64(Buffer)`
 
`fromUrlSafeBase64(Base64)` 

## Implementation Notes

This project is considered complete and won't see any major features or changes.

Input values are heavily checked and `TypeError` is raised if invalid.

## Signature Observations

By default GZip is only used when this shortens the output. One bit in the signature indicates if gzip is used and hence only `len - 1` bits are the "true" signature.
 
Acceptable since signature is `16` bytes and this doesn't increase collisions significantly.
